Hi and welcome back.
Please make sure you've covered the good that we did in the last section.
So this is a practical course.
It will benefit you the most if you do the good.
As we go along instead of waiting till the end of the course.
So anyway let's start with a little bit of definition of machine learning.
We're going to skirt away from the philosophical aspects of what learning is and where the machines
can learn or not.
We're going to define machine learning in a much much more practical way.
So we'll define it as adapting to perform a task in a better way with expedients so better is going
to be according to some measures we'll come to that in a minute.
Also we're going to have some experiences because of which the machine is going to perform the task
better.
So that's going to be our working definition and essentially that is what's going to help us do a lot
of things now.
It should come to your mind what deep learning is if you're not really familiar with deep learning.
It's an algorithm in machine learning so the general aspect is machine learning and the specific concept
is the algorithm of deep learning.
And this algorithm has shown immense levels of success.
So in a couple of minutes we'll get to deep learning really quickly.
But the essence to understand is that it's not as difficult as people make it out to be.
It's a very simple concept to get started with.
It's a lot easier than other models.
It's a little difficult to understand why it works but we don't have to understand the why for it to
start working for us in real life.
So keep that in mind that even though nobody really understands how deep learning works.
That's not stopping us from getting benefit from it.
So what can you do.
What kind of benefits can you get from deep learning and machine learning in general.
So for instance you can expect a you can predict the expected selling price of a house.
So this is going to be predicting a real value.
So real no value.
So by the way I use this pen tablet because it has the it has been shown that doing annotations on screen
helps students learn.
So this is not me trying to get away from animating my slides.
It really does benefit the students a lot more if we do annotations as we speak.
We can also predict whether a patient has cancer given the information that we have about the patient
for instance their C.T. scans.
So this is going to be predicting a discrete value.
Right.
So a discrete value meaning it's either going to be yes or no.
Right so there's nothing in between.
We can also predict whether the image that we're seeing is of an aeroplane or a car.
So this essentially is going to be discrete as well except we're going to have car or plane.
Right.
So we can also predict what is on the top flight of a scenic image that we're seeing whether it's a
tree or a bird or a cloudy sky.
So we can predict different things.
We can also predict how many topics we can categorize or document in things we can predict what the
user wants to read next.
So all of these different types of things we can predict and essentially they all fall into a couple
of different areas.
For instance we can have a regression.
So regression is going to be the idea of predicting real values.
Right.
So continuous values and we can have classification
so classification essentially means that we're going to have discrete values
and we're going to start with regression in general regression and classification fall into the general
category of supervised learning.
So we're going to what we're going to do is we're going to take some sort of data and we're going to
teach the machine what it means is that the machine is going to have a teacher and the machine is going
to act as a student.
So this is the easiest machine learning algorithm to get started with or the paradigm to get started
with unsupervised learning has shown a lot of potential but that's not going to be covered in this particular
course anyway.
So let's start with the learning process what happens in supervised learning as I mentioned.
Because it's supervised we're going to have some sort of data through which we're going to teach the
machine what we do is we take the data and we split it in two portions.
So we take one of those portions and we essentially create a training set.
So this is going to be called a training set a training set essentially means that this is a set of
data points right.
So let's say we have 100 data points in our data set.
So we take 70 of these and the set of these is going to be called a training set.
Now what we do is we take this training set and we feed it to some process.
So we're going to treat this as a black box at the moment.
And so this is a black box which means we're not going to concern ourselves with how this works.
Right.
So there's going to be some process and that process is going to give us an H.
So this H is a function function in the sense you can think of it as a programming function for the
moment and what it does is it takes an input and it produces an output.
Remember this portion over here that we left out.
Now we're going to take this portion over here and treat that as a test set.
So this is going to be the exam that we give to the machine.
So the this portion or here and was straining the machine in order to help it predict the outputs given
the inputs.
Now we take some of the inputs.
These are the test set data points.
What this means is we never showed the answer to these data points to the machine and now we feed it
to this edge function and this edge function is going to make a prediction.
Now if this prediction matches with are real values over here the values that we know are true.
So the values that we know are true those are called crown jewels.
So a ground truth is the value that we know to be true.
So for instance I can say that a house that has five bedrooms goes far ten thousand dollars.
Right.
So that's not realistic.
But let's assume I'm in some cheaper market so I should this number over here.
So five goes in and this edge produces let's say nine hundred and eighty nine thousand eight hundred
dollars.
Right.
So it's not accurate.
It's not correct but it's good enough.
Right.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take this prediction and compare it with our ground truth.
So this over here 10000 is our ground truth and we're going to predict and compare it with the prediction
if the prediction and then round truth are close together so if the output is close to the prediction
we say that the machine has learned right.
So if not then we need to train the machine a bit more or reaching in need to change our process over
here take another process.
So that's essentially what happens now.
Once you have this edge over here you no longer need the training set and the process because we have
the edge.
So now this edge of that function and we can take our test set and we give it to edge and it can make
the predictions.
We don't need the whole portion over here.
Now this is going to be really important when you do practical machine learning because this portion
over here is going to be computer intensive.
You need heavy machinery to carry out this portion of that here.
Right.
So this is going to be very very very difficult on a mobile for instance.
But once you have etch.
This is a very lightweight function
and this lightweight function can be deployed on an FPGA.
You can deploy it on a mobile device you can deploy it on Raspberry Pi.
Any machine that you can think of really.
So you don't even need the dataset anymore.
So all you're going to have is an edge over here and eventually you even get rid of
the desert.
And your predictions.
Right.
So all you have is an edge and you can deploy that edge to another machine.
So now this looks a little bit intensive but we're going to do is what we're going to do is we're going
to move ahead and give you an example of regression.
So we're trying to predict a real valued output.
And in this real valued output problem we're going to have a continuous output and we're going to take
the example of housing prices so this is a very common example in machine learning and it's very easy
to understand because it has only one type of input that we give to the machine.
So in the next video we're going to take a look at regression and how we can apply this process over
here that we just saw in a local media statement.